# Introduction

The goal of this site and supporting code is to describe my experiences through stories about the QA team I led. 
I've explained more [here](https://farhan5248.github.io/About) but at a high level, there's two themes to the stories, the process and the outcome.

1. Process: I applied Toyota Production System concepts or Dr Deming's System of Profound Knowledge and the Improvement Kata (Mike Rother) to a QA team. Eventually the testers were running their automated tests alongside developers in lower environments so that quality was built-in. The result was that almost all QA end-to-end tests were run as component tests before the code was delivered to the QA environment and was virtually defect-free.
2. Outcome: I used the Ubiquitous language described in DDD by Eric Evans in a QA team. When I joined, the practice was to run tests manually and then create automated regression suites at the end. By the time I left, all tests were written in the ubiquious language using the [Xtext framework](https://eclipse.dev/Xtext/) from which test automation could be generated by querying its API. 

## Stories

These are the list of stories by categories. A summary of the supporting repositories and projects is [here](https://farhan5248.github.io/RepositoriesAndProjects)

1. Leading a QA team to test COBOL code before it's delivered to QA
    1. Does running the QA team tests during coding slow you down?
    2. Does it matter if the tests actually drive the development?
4. Leading a QA team to create GUI test automation themselves
