# Jidoka

In my experience, whether doing deploys or automating test execution or anything else like test case creation using MBT etc folks always aim for full automation; I don't. My approach is to automate a small part and then each time I do the same task again, I automate more. When I get to the point of diminishing returns, I stop. This is why I like the definition of automation with a human touch for Jidoka. I don't think we should try to completely automate someone out of a job.  (video: dr spear at toyota)

When I'd ask testers what about their job could we automate, most folks said nothing. I assume this was out of fear of me automating them out of their jobs. The team used HP ALM to store test cases so we automated stuff around that including using its web-services. When we moved to Azure DevOps/Team Foundation Server, we used its web-services. When we left behind HP QTP to go to Jenkins, we used the Jenkins web-services to automate managing it and to create custom reports from runs. 

Any automation had to be coded in 1 hour or half a day or one day. If it needed more time, we'd break up the improvement into smaller steps. The goal was to make something quickly and put it in front of the customer and get their feedback. In this situation, the customer was the tester and the person doing the coding was someone who previously was automating test cases.  An example is a tool the COBOL testers were using. It was tedious to click through a whole bunch of buttons to input 2-3 parameters so I just made the custom Maven plug-in call the Java code directly without the need for clicking. Now they just doubt-clicked one script.