# Just in Time

I explained what just-in-time manufacturing was and the waste of inventory. This team worked in a waterfall project. In some cases, you'd have 3 months of test case planning followed by 3 months of test case execution for example. 

One of our goals was to not have huge inventories of
1. Test cases that weren't executed yet. This team mainly worked with drug benefit health insurance and some features needed hundreds of new test cases, all with their own head hurting math equations. I used to see the test execution phase as the test re-planning phase as testers went through re-doing all the math, just a waste of time.
2. Executed test cases and their code not deployed to production just waiting in QA. The obvious problem with this situation was when the dreaded high severity high impact bug that puts the whole release on hold. The idea was that if we sign-off on something, we should be able to promote it.

To avoid this we'd work towards the following
1. Only write enough test cases to drive the development in the developer's local dev environment.
2. The developer should never write code that waits too long to have tests run against it. This is to prevent testing in not so big batches after coding and actually work towards red green refactor. We don't want an inventory of untested code building.
3. The code should only be deployed to QA just in time for a regression to finish before the deploy into the customer facing environment. This is to avoid dumping a whole bunch of code into QA and then face the pressure of having to sign-off on everything before it can leave the environment. The reason to sign-off on every change in that QA environment was because of the monolithic architecture. 