# Gemba

First I started spending time with them to understand the flow. I was doing an informal Value Stream Map in my head. I never told my team what a VSM was as I tried to keep the buzzword count to a minimum. I explained that I was trying to understand how they interacted with each other, not monitor them doing their work. My questions were more around who asked them to do a task and who was the next person in the chain or whether they knew why things were done that way. 

When I first started sitting with folks, I knew it would make some of them uncomfortable to have their boss watching how they were working. Their previous manager had quit and his boss, the director had been let go so it was not surprising to hear that people were concerned about losing their jobs. I handled this by patiently waiting for folks to volunteer to walk me through what they did.

Another reason for sitting with them virtually or in-person is to get a sense of where they are on the innovation curve. If you're familiar with the law of diffusion of innovation, I was basically waiting for the innovators. Folks who are excited about change will be only too happy to tell you all their ideas. I'd just listen them, you don't have to go and start implementing everything right away but it's worthwhile listening, you'll learn about them.

Then I'd ask them to recommend people I should reach out to after they had introduced the ideas to them. This is important, I waited for the early adopters to go be the ambassadors and convince others before I approached them. I also did presentations showing all the little things people did, emphasizing that it was very very little that they did and that was the goal, we were going to take small steps.