# Start With Why

What's in it for we, they get skills, I get efficiency

When I joined the QA team, there was a lot of fear. If you're familiar with the Westrum Culture model, I'd say this place was pathological. How bad was the fear? Before I joined the QA team, I used to say hi to someone whenever we'd come into work, we'd have small chats in the elevator or while waiting for it. It turns out this person was on the QA team so I figured I'd go talk to them. The minute I showed up at his desk, I wasn't greeted with the usual "Hi" but rather "You can't automate me out of my job".  It turns out after the 10+ years of working in that building, I had a reputation of automating things and I was very good at it. He had heard rumours that I was there to kill people's jobs and that the robots would be taking over. The more folks I spoke to, the more of this I saw. 

I wanted them to be intrinsically motivated so the first thing I would do is communicate the why they were doing this. That is, I wanted the testers to have better skills that would help them in their future. The how we'd do that is by creating a culture of continuous improvement and easy ownership so we could maximise our learning time. What we'd have in the end is increasingly defect-free code getting to QA and all the benefits that comes with it. 

The testers could see on job sites that with these new skills they'd earn more money. Regardless of whether I planned on replacing them all with robots, I asked, "Wouldn't you be better off with these skills when you lose your job than without? So if the company pays me to train you, why not take advantage of it?". If they couldn't connect with the company purpose or see their impact on the customer, then as selfish as it may seem to some, I told them this will help them look out for themselves.